


Git Key Terms:


Repository:
It contains each files in your project ans stores your changes as history.
Think of this one as a folder that Git can track(follow) the changes,
updtaes or deletes.

Local:
This refers to verison of your project that 
is in your personal laptop.
When you make changes here, they are not immediately availbale to anyone.
Changes need to be committed and pushed a remote repository first.


Staging Environment:
     Before you commit all the changes, you decide which changes
     will be included in commit by moving changes to staging environment. 
     Staging are like preparation table, where you can line up 
     your changes, get ready for finalizing them. 

Remote repository:
A version of your project that is on internet or another network,
often in the platforms like GitHub, Gitlab, Bitbucket.
After committing changes locally, commits will be pushed to remote repo.

Commit: Once your are satisfied with your changes you have made, the you can comit them.
A commit is like taking a picture of all the changes that you have made at the moment.
 


Basic commands of Git:
command is a an order we can execute in the terminal.

git init:
    This initialize a new Git repository and begins tracking an existing
    directory.
    Addds a hidden subfolder within the existing ewquired for versions control.EncodingWarning
     

git add:
    Add changes in the directory(folder) to the staging area.
    It prepares it for the commit.

Syntax: git add filename
""
    git add Python day4-Git.txt
""  

We would want to add all the changes in staging environment.

""
git add -A
""

git commit: 
    Takes all the changes writtten in staging environment ad saves them to the local repository.
    You should provise a message describing what this commit is for.

    ""
    got commit -m "Descriptive commit message"


git push: 
    Pushes commits from your local repository to a remote repository.
    For the first push to a nw remote you might need specify branch as well.
First time:

    ""
    git push origin main 
    ""
    All others:
    ""
    git push

    ""

#Branching in git is an advanced topic 


What is token?

It is string of characters that represents a specific permission or
authorization.
In git we can use PAT(Personal Acces Token) : A secure tokenthat users genereate to authenticate into their github 
github account when using HTTPS protocol.



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

https://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:github.com/kurmanbekov77/DevOps_b5.git

hfhgjhk












